# Concrete Crack Classification with Tensorflow Keras API

The dataset with all the images used in this project was downloaded from Mendeley Data:

Özgenel, Çağlar Fırat (2018), “Concrete Crack Images for Classification”, Mendeley Data, v1
http://dx.doi.org/10.17632/5y9wdsg2zt.1

Dataset: Concrete Crack Images for Classification

File: Concrete Crack Images for Classification

DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.17632/5y9wdsg2zt.1#file-c0d86f9f-852e-4d00-bf45-9a0e24e3b932


Using the Tensorflow Keras API, a Convolutional Neural Network model was trained on the scaled down images of concrete labeled as "Positive" or "Negative" for concrete surfaces with a crack or not. 

The dataset consists of 40000 concrete surface images split in 20000 labeled "Positive" and 20000 labeled "Negative". The images have been reduced in quality and are actually fragments of much higher quality images.

This repository contains 3 python files. One for the data pre-processing, managing the directories and image sizes, one for the model architecture and training proccess and another one for using an already trained model for predicting one image of your choice. This last one requires a model file that is generated by the second python file.

It uses a Convolutional Neural Network made with Tensorflow Keras API, using GPU for training. It's structured with 2 Convolutional layers with 125 nodes, each one followed by a Max Pooling and Dropout layers. Then, it has a Flatten layer followed by a Fully Connected layer with 258 nodes and finally the Output layer. The activation function used for all layers was ReLU (Rectified Linear Unit), except for the output layer where the Sigmoid function was used.

Since it's a binary classification, the loss function used is binary cross-entropy. The optimizer used is Adam and the adopted batch size 128.

